and then I see the disinfectant where it
knocks it out in a minute one minute and
is there way we can do something like
that by injection inside or almost of
cleaning a lot happens in a week these
days that was exactly one week ago when
President Trump talked up disinfectants
a dangerously ignorant statement that
spawned days of controversy and
government Corrections and the issue
there and the issue tonight is not
fundamentally about ideology or politics
it's about science and truths government
ignorant about science is dangerous
during a pandemic you know that we know
that maybe sometimes he doesn't know
that today's problems are a long way
from how presidents in both parties have
tried to approach medical science
especially during crises here was
President Obama in his very first
inaugural dress we will restore science
to its rightful place and wield
technology's wonders to raise health
care quality and lower its cost that was
the asserted priority coming into office
he wanted people to know in the
inaugural that science would matter and
he went on to restrict take those
restrictions that were on stem cell
research and lift them he went on to
order federal agencies to maintain
scientific integrity he also joined the
Paris climate Accords which he argued
was a direct response to climate science
in fact all the way back in 2010 it was
Barack Obama who actually held the first
ever White House Science Fair with
students because the United States has
always been a place that loves science
we're here to celebrate these young
scientists and visionaries there's the
folks who are going to come up with
cures for diseases and new sources of
energy and help us build healthier more
successful societies President Obama
also happily leaned into the nerdier
side of these things here he was firing
a student's marshmallow cannon all to
prop up to engage with to show in a very
real way all the different methods
can use from education to the rest of
our lives to work with science now of
course it's not all science fairs and
games the United States face swine flu
and Obama's first year on the job and
because we think this is relevant now we
want to show you exactly how that
President led the country during a scary
time of infectious disease stressing the
approach of his administration would be
scientists taking the lead our capacity
to deal with a public health challenge
of this sort rests heavily on the work
of our scientific and medical community
as our scientists and researchers learn
more information about this virus every
day the guidance we offer will likely
change what will not change is the fact
that we'll be making every
recommendation based on the best science
possible that is what it looks like when
a president warns the country very
directly and speaks to them like they're
adults to tell you hey some of this may
change over time because we're learning
as we go but every recommendation will
be rooted in science that was the
standard now Donald Trump claims he
doesn't expect a second wave of
coronavirus in the fall publicly at odds
with the experts who say it's inevitable
the last president took a different tack
on the same issue ten years ago we know
that we usually get a second larger wave
of these flu viruses in the fall and so
response plans have been put in place
across all levels of government our
plans and decisions are based on the
best scientific information available
and as the situation changes we will
continue to update the public a
president warning you the flu can come
back rather than pretending it won't
Obama had a similar approach dealing
with Ebola and we have to be guided by
the science they have to be guided by
the facts not fear he went on to make a
public display meeting with the Dallas
nurse who has recovered from Ebola and
gave her a hug right there for the
nation to see if you go further back
before the presidency senator Obama also
discussed publicly his worries about the
very kind of crisis we now face since
coming to the Senate six months ago one
of the foreign policy and
health issues I focused on relates to
the avian flu we must face the reality
that these exotic killer diseases are
not isolated health problems halfway
around the world but direct and
immediate threats to the security and
prosperity here at home for all the talk
about what you can predict and what you
can be prepared for it is instructive
right now to look at which types of
approaches work which types of risk
management it was in that same
legislative body the US Senate where
that senator made clear he wanted
scientists making the big decisions
who's going to be responsible for
deciding that a quarantine in some
circumstances warned in do you think it
would make sense to have yourself or dr.
French doctor foul Qi or others somebody
who was saying you know what I am
keeping track of all this stuff I hope I
can help I I know this has been a
obviously a back-and-forth confusing
issue in reality we're talking about
something that's overwhelmingly a health
issue we all know what we're dealing
with right now back when Donald Trump
was drawing sharp eeeem lines on a
hurricane map that was dangerous
misinformation for those who were in the
storm's path that was part of the
country now you can look at this and
it's like we're drawing sharpies all
over the world map but the worst
pandemic in a century with potentially
catastrophic life-and-death consequences
and you have questions about what
happens to our safety when you have the
misinformation coming directly from the
White House when you have scientists
suppressed and basically ousted or
sideline because they disagreed with the
president none of that is supposed to be
normal in the White House promoting
science isn't just about providing
resources it's also about protecting
free and open inquiry it's about letting
scientists like those who are here today
do their jobs free from manipulation or
coercion and listening to what they tell
us even when it's inconvenient
especially when it's inconvenient
it is about ensuring that scientific
data is never distorted or concealed to
serve a political agenda and that we
make scientific decisions based on facts
not ideology hey I'm all remember from
MSNBC you can see more of our videos
right here or better yet subscribe to
our youtube channel below you could have
been anywhere in the world that you're
here with us and we appreciate that